# WearableComputing

## Johns Hopkins Coursera course [Data Science]
### Part 3: Getting and Cleaning Data, Course Project

### Objective: To collect data, prepare clean and tidy dataset for analysis 

This is a course assignment for the Coursera Data Science, part 3 (Getting and Cleaning Data), given by Johns Hopkins. The premise is to collect and clean up data using R programming, starting with a raw dataset.  
  
The dataset consists of experimental measurements generated by the embedded accelerometer and gyroscope of a Samsung Galaxy S II Smartphone worn on the waist of 30 volunteers who perform 6 different activities, with the goal of recognizing the activity based on data (see Note).  
  
The dataset is downloaded from https://d396qusza40orc.cloudfront.net/getdata%2Fprojectfiles%2FUCI%20HAR%20Dataset.zip and unpacked into the working directory inside the folder UCI HAR Dataset.  
  
The R script run_analysis.R opens the datafiles in the set to extract the data from txt file format, combining several files into one merged dataset. Specifically, a Training and a Test dataset are merged and annotated using columns denonting study subject and experimental activity. Collumn headers are extracted from a feature file and used to select the relevant portion of the data. For this purpose, all features (column names) that are a mean value or standard deviation are selected to be displayed. A full list of data collected by the study team is given in the documentation provided by the authors in the raw dataset (see Note). 

Once the datasets are merged and annotated, the selected measurements are averaged per subject and experimental activity.  
The data frame at the end consists of 180 rows (30 subjects, each performing 6 activities) and 81 variables (including 79 mean values and standard deviations of the dataset). A code book is provided.


##Note:
Wearable computing experiment: Human Activity Recognition with Smartphone
(http://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/Human+Activity+Recognition+Using+Smartphones) 

Reference  
Davide Anguita, Alessandro Ghio, Luca Oneto, Xavier Parra and Jorge L. Reyes-Ortiz. Human Activity Recognition on Smartphones using a Multiclass Hardware-Friendly Support Vector Machine. International Workshop of Ambient Assisted Living (IWAAL 2012). Vitoria-Gasteiz, Spain. Dec 2012
##